README.md, before:

# How to run the bot

## Installation

### MacOS
1. Install Python 3.10.0: https://docs.python-guide.org/starting/install3/osx/

   - (optional) Install Python with pyenv instead:
   - `brew install pyenv`
   - `pyenv install 3.10.0`
   - `pyenv global 3.10.0`

2. Setup a virtual env:
   - `cd discord-bots`
   - `python3 -m venv .venv`
   - `source .venv/bin/activate`
3. `pip install -U .`
4. `cp .env.example .env`. Modify `.env` by adding your API key
5. Set up the database: `alembic upgrade head`

### Windows
1. Install Python
2. Set up a virtualenv
  - `python3 -m venv .venv`
  - `.venv\Scripts\activate`
    If you see this error:
    ```
    File <>\discord-bots\.venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1 cannot be loaded because running scripts is disabled on this system. For more information, see about_Execution_Policies at https:/go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=135170.
    ```
    You may need to adjust your windows execution policy: https://stackoverflow.com/a/18713789


## .env file configuration
The following are required
- `DISCORD_API_KEY`
- `CHANNEL_ID` - The discord id of the channel the bot will live in
- `TRIBES_VOICE_CATEGORY_CHANNEL_ID` - The id of the voice channel category (so the bot can make voice channels)
- `SEED_ADMIN_IDS` - Discord ids of players that will start off as admin. You'll need at least one in order to create more
- `DB_USER_NAME`, `DB_PASSWORD`, `DB_NAME`

The following are optional
- `LOG_FILE` - Fully qualified file to log to. If set the bot logs both to the console and to the rotating log file, else it only logs to the console. Highly Recommended.
- `STATS_DIR`, `STATS_WIDTH`, `STATS_HEIGHT` - The bot assumes the last file dumped here is html file of the stats of the last game finished. It will take a screenshot and upload an image to the channel and delete it
- `TWITCH_GAME_NAME`, `TWITCH_CLIENT_ID`, `TWITCH_CLIENT_SECRET` - These enable the `streams` command to list current streams of the specified game
- `COMMAND_PREFIX` - Use a different prefix instead of `!`
- `MOCK_COMMAND_USERS` - Discord ids of players that can use the `mockrandomqueue` command
- `RANDOM_MAP_ROTATION` - Declare this for the map rotation to be random
- `DEFAULT_TRUESKILL_MU`, `DEFAULT_TRUESKILL_SIGMA` - Declare this to set the default trueskill value for new players
- `SHOW_TRUESKILL` - Shows player trueskill when making teams, enables the trueskill leaderboard, etc.
- `SHOW_TRUESKILL_DETAILS` - Additionally display Mu and Sigma values
- `AFK_TIME_MINUTES` - Timeout after which inactive users are autodeleted from queues
- `MAP_ROTATION_MINUTES` - Time between automatic map rotationss
- `MAP_VOTE_THRESHOLD` - Amount of players needed in order to vote for or skip a map
- `RE_ADD_DELAY_SECONDS` - Time in "waiting list" after a game ghas finished
- `DISABLE_PRIVATE_MESSAGES` - Force bot not to send private messages
- `POP_RANDOM_QUEUE` - Determines which queue starts a game when a single add could pop multiple queues. If false the "first" queue will pop
- `DAYS_UNTIL_INACTIVE` - Days before player is marked as inactive and thus not shown in the leaderboard command

## Running the bot

1. `cd discord-bots`
1. `source .venv/bin/activate`
1. `python -m discord_bots.main`

# Development

## Installation

The steps are the same but use `pip install -e .` instead. This allows local changes to be picked up automatically.

## Editor

Recommend using vscode. If you do, install these vscode plugins:

- Python
- Pylance

## Type checking

If you use vscode add this to your settings.json (if anyone knows how to commit
this to the project lmk!):
https://www.emmanuelgautier.com/blog/enable-vscode-python-type-checking

```json
{
  "python.analysis.typeCheckingMode": "basic"
}
```

This enforces type checks for the types declared

## Formatting

Use python black: https://github.com/psf/black

- Go to vscode preferences (cmd + `,` on mac, ctrl + `,` on windows)
- Type "python formatting" in the search bar
- For the option `Python > Formatting: Provider` select `black`

### Pre-commit hook

This project uses `darker` for formatting in a pre-commit hook. Install using `pre-commit install`

## Tests

Tests don't currently work, so skip this step

- `pytest`

I haven't setup alembic to cooperate with the test database. If you add a new
migration, delete the test db (`rm tribes.test.db`) and the code will migrate your new database.

## Migrations

Migrations are handled by Alembic: https://alembic.sqlalchemy.org/. See here for a tutorial: https://alembic.sqlalchemy.org/en/latest/tutorial.html.

To apply migrations:

- `alembic upgrade head`

To create new migrations:

- Make your changes in `models.py`
- Generate a migration file: `alembic revision --autogenerate -m "Your migration name here"`. Your migration file will be in `alembic/versions`.
- Apply your migration to the database: `alembic upgrade head`
- Commit your migration: `git add alembic/versions`

Common issues:

- Alembic does not pick up certain changes like renaming tables or columns
  correctly. For these changes you'll need to manually edit the migration file.
  See here for a full list of changes Alembic will not detect correctly:
  https://alembic.sqlalchemy.org/en/latest/autogenerate.html#what-does-autogenerate-detect-and-what-does-it-not-detect
- To set a default value for a column, you'll need to use `server_default`:
  https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/14/core/defaults.html#server-defaults. This sets
  a default on the database side.
- Alembic also sometimes has issues with constraints and naming. If you run into
  an issue like this, you may need to hand edit the migration. See here:
  https://alembic.sqlalchemy.org/en/latest/naming.html

# Bugs

# To-do list

- Map-specific trueskill rating
- Start map rotation only after game finishes
- Convert from sqlite to postgres
- Refactor commands file
- Automatically show rotation maps in voteable maps and when a rotation map is voted, just rotate to it
- Fix tests

## Good first tickets
- Store player display name alongside regular name
- Store total games played
- Allow voting for multiple maps at once
- Store total games played, win/loss/tie record
- Add created_at timestamps to all tables (esp finished_game_player)

MVP+

- Shazbucks
- Expose Flask API: https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/2.0.x/

Commit message:

feat: add script for recalculating ratings in a region

README.md, after:

# How to run the bot

## Installation

### MacOS
1. Install Python 3.10.0: https://docs.python-guide.org/starting/install3/osx/

   - (optional) Install Python with pyenv instead:
   - `brew install pyenv`
   - `pyenv install 3.10.0`
   - `pyenv global 3.10.0`

2. Setup a virtual env:
   - `cd discord-bots`
   - `python3 -m venv .venv`
   - `source .venv/bin/activate`
3. `pip install -U .`
4. `cp .env.example .env`. Modify `.env` by adding your API key
5. Set up the database: `alembic upgrade head`

### Windows
1. Install Python
2. Set up a virtualenv
  - `python3 -m venv .venv`
  - `.venv\Scripts\activate`
    If you see this error:
    ```
    File <>\discord-bots\.venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1 cannot be loaded because running scripts is disabled on this system. For more information, see about_Execution_Policies at https:/go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=135170.
    ```
    You may need to adjust your windows execution policy: https://stackoverflow.com/a/18713789


## .env file configuration
The following are required
- `DISCORD_API_KEY`
- `CHANNEL_ID` - The discord id of the channel the bot will live in
- `TRIBES_VOICE_CATEGORY_CHANNEL_ID` - The id of the voice channel category (so the bot can make voice channels)
- `SEED_ADMIN_IDS` - Discord ids of players that will start off as admin. You'll need at least one in order to create more
- `DB_USER_NAME`, `DB_PASSWORD`, `DB_NAME`

The following are optional
- `LOG_FILE` - Fully qualified file to log to. If set the bot logs both to the console and to the rotating log file, else it only logs to the console. Highly Recommended.
- `STATS_DIR`, `STATS_WIDTH`, `STATS_HEIGHT` - The bot assumes the last file dumped here is html file of the stats of the last game finished. It will take a screenshot and upload an image to the channel and delete it
- `TWITCH_GAME_NAME`, `TWITCH_CLIENT_ID`, `TWITCH_CLIENT_SECRET` - These enable the `streams` command to list current streams of the specified game
- `COMMAND_PREFIX` - Use a different prefix instead of `!`
- `MOCK_COMMAND_USERS` - Discord ids of players that can use the `mockrandomqueue` command
- `RANDOM_MAP_ROTATION` - Declare this for the map rotation to be random
- `DEFAULT_TRUESKILL_MU`, `DEFAULT_TRUESKILL_SIGMA` - Declare this to set the default trueskill value for new players
- `SHOW_TRUESKILL` - Shows player trueskill when making teams, enables the trueskill leaderboard, etc.
- `SHOW_TRUESKILL_DETAILS` - Additionally display Mu and Sigma values
- `AFK_TIME_MINUTES` - Timeout after which inactive users are autodeleted from queues
- `MAP_ROTATION_MINUTES` - Time between automatic map rotationss
- `MAP_VOTE_THRESHOLD` - Amount of players needed in order to vote for or skip a map
- `RE_ADD_DELAY_SECONDS` - Time in "waiting list" after a game ghas finished
- `DISABLE_PRIVATE_MESSAGES` - Force bot not to send private messages
- `POP_RANDOM_QUEUE` - Determines which queue starts a game when a single add could pop multiple queues. If false the "first" queue will pop
- `DAYS_UNTIL_INACTIVE` - Days before player is marked as inactive and thus not shown in the leaderboard command

## Running the bot

1. `cd discord-bots`
1. `source .venv/bin/activate`
1. `python -m discord_bots.main`

# Development

## Installation

The steps are the same but use `pip install -e .` instead. This allows local changes to be picked up automatically.

## Editor

Recommend using vscode. If you do, install these vscode plugins:

- Python
- Pylance

## Type checking

If you use vscode add this to your settings.json (if anyone knows how to commit
this to the project lmk!):
https://www.emmanuelgautier.com/blog/enable-vscode-python-type-checking

```json
{
  "python.analysis.typeCheckingMode": "basic"
}
```

This enforces type checks for the types declared

## Formatting

Use python black: https://github.com/psf/black

- Go to vscode preferences (cmd + `,` on mac, ctrl + `,` on windows)
- Type "python formatting" in the search bar
- For the option `Python > Formatting: Provider` select `black`

### Pre-commit hook

This project uses `darker` for formatting in a pre-commit hook. Install using `pre-commit install`

## Tests

Tests don't currently work, so skip this step

- `pytest`

I haven't setup alembic to cooperate with the test database. If you add a new
migration, delete the test db (`rm tribes.test.db`) and the code will migrate your new database.

## Migrations

Migrations are handled by Alembic: https://alembic.sqlalchemy.org/. See here for a tutorial: https://alembic.sqlalchemy.org/en/latest/tutorial.html.

To apply migrations:

- `alembic upgrade head`

To create new migrations:

- Make your changes in `models.py`
- Generate a migration file: `alembic revision --autogenerate -m "Your migration name here"`. Your migration file will be in `alembic/versions`.
- Apply your migration to the database: `alembic upgrade head`
- Commit your migration: `git add alembic/versions`

Common issues:

- Alembic does not pick up certain changes like renaming tables or columns
  correctly. For these changes you'll need to manually edit the migration file.
  See here for a full list of changes Alembic will not detect correctly:
  https://alembic.sqlalchemy.org/en/latest/autogenerate.html#what-does-autogenerate-detect-and-what-does-it-not-detect
- To set a default value for a column, you'll need to use `server_default`:
  https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/14/core/defaults.html#server-defaults. This sets
  a default on the database side.
- Alembic also sometimes has issues with constraints and naming. If you run into
  an issue like this, you may need to hand edit the migration. See here:
  https://alembic.sqlalchemy.org/en/latest/naming.html

# Scripts

## Soft Reset

Recalculates the ratings of a queue region from the given start date (or all games if empty). 
It resets all ratings to default rating (25 mu, 8.3 sigma).   
The entire game history of the specified regions and queues is reprocessed in order.
One of `--src-regions` and `--src-queues` must not be empty. Regions and queues are loaded case-sensitive!

Unless `--store True` is explicitly specified the rating changes are only logged and not stored.
The changed ratings are printed as a csv file into the log. 
Only rated trueskill values are logged, though both rated and unrated trueskill is recalculated. 

**Examples**
`python ./scriptsv2/soft_reset.py --src-regions eu --from 2022-02-02T22:22 --target-region eu`  
`python ./scriptsv2/soft_reset.py --src-regions eu na --src-queues gold masters --from 2020-01-01 --target-region gold --store True`

It is recommended to shut down the bot during reprocessing while there is no game running.  
If this is not the case the behaviour is undefined.


# Bugs

# To-do list

- Map-specific trueskill rating
- Start map rotation only after game finishes
- Convert from sqlite to postgres
- Refactor commands file
- Automatically show rotation maps in voteable maps and when a rotation map is voted, just rotate to it
- Fix tests

## Good first tickets
- Store player display name alongside regular name
- Store total games played
- Allow voting for multiple maps at once
- Store total games played, win/loss/tie record
- Add created_at timestamps to all tables (esp finished_game_player)

MVP+

- Shazbucks
- Expose Flask API: https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/2.0.x/
